Port MASTG test 0019 (by @guardsquare) (#3030)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-NETWORK/MASTG-TEST-0x19-2.md

Author: Good point, I added a draft test for this.

---
title: SSLSockets not Properly Verifying Hostnames
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x19-2
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0052
---

## Overview

> `SSLSocket` does not perform hostname verification (see ["Android documentation"](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl#WarningsSslSocket)) by default. This needs to be implemented securely by the app itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SSLSocket` does not perform hostname verification by default unless the app explicitly uses [`HostnameVerifier.verify()`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/HostnameVerifier#verify(java.lang.String,%20javax.net.SSL.SSLSession)). See the ["Android documentation"](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl#WarningsSslSocket) and ["Unsafe HostnameVerifier"](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/risks/unsafe-hostname) for more details.
```

> A secure way isto implement an own `HostnameVerifier` which forwards the hostname verification to the `verify()` method of the `DefaultHostnameVerifier()`Be aware that `HostnameVerifier.verify()` does not throw an exception on error. Instead, it returns a boolean result that must explicitly check by the app.
> 
> See ["Unsafe HostnameVerifier"](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/risks/unsafe-hostname) for more information about insecure `HostnameVerifiers`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
